= HostBot: your Wikipedia robot friend =
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:HostBot HostBot] is a set of Python scripts that performs repetitive tasks on and for the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse Wikipedia Teahouse]. HostBot is run by [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Jtmorgan Jonathan Morgan], and is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation. Hostbot makes extensive use of the [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API:Main_page MediaWiki API], the [http://code.google.com/p/python-wikitools/ wikitools] Python framework and may in future draw on [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Pywikipediabot pywikipediabot] as well, although it does not currently do so.

Information about what the Teahouse is, and how it came to be can be found [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Teahouse here]. If you're curious about the current status of the project, read up [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Research:Teahouse/Phase_2_report here] and [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Research:Teahouse/Phase_2_report/Metrics here], or post to [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Jtmorgan Jtmorgan's talk page on Wikipedia].

== /new_editor_invites ==
These scripts maintain a database of new editors who meet the basic criteria for invitation to the Teahouse, and invites ~100 editors who meet these criteria on a daily basis. You can read more about the inclusion criteria [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Hosts/Database_reports/Automated_invites here], and you can see a daily report of the users invited [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Hosts/Database_reports/Automated_invites here].

=== Scripts ===
* <code>teahouseInvitees.py</code> : Grabs the daily sample of new editors to invite.
* <code>inviteCheck.py</code> : Checks to see whether these editors have been invited to the Teahouse already by someone other than HostBot.
* <code>hostbotInvites.py</code> : Invites all editors from today's sample who meet the invite criteria.

=== MYSQL tables ===
These scripts use several of the standard Wikipedia database tables (enwiki.revision, enwiki.recentchanges, enwiki.user... maybe a couple others) which are available to account holders on toolserver.org. 

They also make use of a custom tables created to keep track of who gets invited to the Teahouse, and whether they continue editing Wikipedia (for purposes of quantifying the impact of Teahouse participation on new editor retention).

;th_up_invitees
The master list of invitees. Not all of these fields are strictly necessary.

:''Used by:'' all new_editor_invites scripts

 +-------------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
 | Field             | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
 +-------------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
 | id                | int(11) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
 | user_id           | int(11)          | YES  | UNI | NULL    |                |
 | user_name         | varbinary(200)   | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | user_registration | varbinary(14)    | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | user_editcount    | int(11)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | email_status      | varbinary(14)    | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | edit_sessions     | int(11)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | sample_group      | varbinary(14)    | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | sample_date       | datetime         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | sample_type       | varbinary(11)    | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | invite_status     | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | hostbot_invite    | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | hostbot_personal  | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | hostbot_skipped   | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | user_talkpage     | int(11)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 +-------------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+

== /monthly_metrics ==
These scripts generate automated metrics about Teahouse activity and posts a simple metrics report to enwp.org/WP:Teahouse/Host_lounge/Metrics. Currently set up to run on the first of every month.  

=== Scripts ===
Currently, each of these five scripts posts a separate section to the automated metrics page.
* <code>intro_section.py</code> : Posts introductory content (mostly static) to the top of the page. This script must be run before any of the others.
* <code>questions_section.py</code> : Posts the number of questions asked this month, their response rate, etc. and compares with the previous month.
* <code>profiles_section.py</code> : Posts the number of profiles created on the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests Teahouse Guests page] this month, their response rate, etc. and compares with the previous month.
* <code>hosts_section.py</code> : Posts the number of hosts who participated this month, and compares that with the previous month.
* <code>pageviews_section.py</code> : Posts the overall pageviews to Wikipedia Teahouse (main page only). Pulls from [http://stats.grok.se/ stats.grok.se].

=== MYSQL tables ===
These scripts use several of the standard Wikipedia database tables (enwiki.revision, enwiki.recentchanges, enwiki.user... maybe a couple others) which are available to account holders on toolserver.org. Several of the automated metrics scripts also use a set of custom tables that track various activity metrics on enwp.org/WP:Teahouse. 

;th_up_questions

:''Used by:'' <code>questions_section.py</code>

This table logs questions that have been asked on the Teahouse Q&A board (enwp.org/WP:Teahouse/Questions).

 +--------------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
 | Field              | Type            | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
 +--------------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
 | rev_id             | int(8) unsigned | NO   | PRI | 0       |       |
 | rev_user           | int(5) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |       |
 | rev_user_text      | varbinary(255)  | NO   |     |         |       |
 | rev_timestamp      | varbinary(14)   | NO   |     |         |       |
 | rev_comment        | varbinary(255)  | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | post_date          | datetime        | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | week               | int(11)         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | questioner_replies | int(11)         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | answers            | int(11)         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | first_answer_date  | datetime        | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 +--------------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+

	
;th_up_hosts

:''Used by:'' <code>hosts_section.py</code>

This table logs the activity of Teahouse hosts on WP:Teahouse and its subpages, as well as the location of their host profile.

 +----------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
 | Field          | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
 +----------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
 | id             | int(11) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
 | user_name      | varbinary(255)   | YES  | UNI | NULL    |                |
 | user_id        | int(11)          | YES  | UNI | NULL    |                |
 | user_talkpage  | int(11)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | join_date      | datetime         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | last_move_date | datetime         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | num_edits_2wk  | int(11)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | latest_edit    | datetime         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | in_breakroom   | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | retired        | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | featured       | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | colleague      | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 | has_profile    | tinyint(1)       | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
 +----------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+	

	
;th_up_profiles

:''Used by:'' <code>profiles_section.py</code>

This table logs the activity of Teahouse hosts on WP:Teahouse and its subpages, as well as the location of their host profile.	

 +---------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
 | Field         | Type            | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
 +---------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
 | rev_id        | int(8) unsigned | NO   | PRI | 0       |       |
 | rev_user      | int(5) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |       |
 | rev_user_text | varbinary(255)  | NO   | UNI |         |       |
 | rev_timestamp | varbinary(14)   | NO   |     |         |       |
 | rev_comment   | varbinary(255)  | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | post_date     | datetime        | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 | week          | int(11)         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
 +---------------+-----------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
 
 
== /host_profiles ==
These scripts work together to make sure that the list of profiles visible to guests on [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Hosts the host profile page] is reflective of the hosts who are currently actively participating in the Teahouse. Hosts who become inactive are moved to the  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Host_breakroom host breakroom page]. Currently, a host is considered inactive if they have not edited WP:Teahouse or any of its sub- or talk-pages for at least 2 weeks. Host profiles are moved back to the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Host_landing host landing page] (which is transcluded into Teahouse/Hosts) when they become active again, or when they check in.

These scripts use the MediaWiki API.

=== Scripts ===
* <code>deactivateHosts.py</code> : Moves profiles of inactive hosts to the breakroom
* <code>reactivateHosts.py</code> : Moves profiles of newly active hosts to the host_landing page.
* <code>reorderHosts.py</code> : Re-orders host profiles, putting the newest and most active hosts on top.
* <code>clearCheckins.py</code> : clears the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Host_checkin checkins page], if not blank.


=== Tables === 
Custom: <code>th_up_hosts</code>

Default: <code>enwiki.revision</code>


== /guest_profiles ==
These scripts work together to make sure that the list of profiles visible to guests on [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Hosts the guest profile page] is relatively short, and contains only the profiles of the most recent visitors. Older guest profiles are moved to the  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guest_book guestbook page], after which [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:MiszaBot_II MiszaBot II] takes care of archiving. Currently, guest profiles are archived weekly on en.wp.teahouse, from the two sub_pages, [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests/Left_column Left_column] and [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests/Right_column Right_column], which are transcluded into [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests Teahouse/Guests].

These scripts use the MediaWiki API.

=== Scripts ===
* <code>archiveGuestsLeft.py</code> : Moves older guest profiles to the guestbook.
* <code>archiveGuestsRight.py</code> : Moves moves older guest profiles to the guest book.

=== Tables === 
None


== /featured_content ==
These scripts work together to push recent content to the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse Teahouse front page]. 

These scripts use the MediaWiki API.

=== Scripts ===
* <code>featuredGuests.py</code> : Grabs relevant fields from the profiles of recent guests on [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests/Left_column Left_column] and [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guests/Right_column Right_column] and adds them to sub-pages of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Guest/Featured the featured guest index], overwriting the previous set. For variety, only guest profiles with a custom image are selected.
* <code>featuredHosts.py</code> : Grabs relevant fields from the profiles of recently-joined and highly-active hosts on [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Hosts/Host_landing the host_landing page] and adds them to sub-pages of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Host/Featured the featured host index], overwriting the previous set.
* <code>recentQuestions.py</code> : Grabs up to five questions asked on the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Questions Teahouse/Questions page] from the last two days and adds them to sub-pages of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Teahouse/Questions-recent Teahouse/Questions-recent], overwriting the previous set.


=== Tables === 
Default: <code>enwiki.revision</code>